REVIEW: XMPP Newsletter April 2023 (#1265)
xsf/xmpp.org: content/blog/2023-05-05-newsletter.md

## XSF Announcements

- xmpp.org got a new software section! Looking for XMPP software, i.e. clients, servers, libraries, components, and tools? Check out [xmpp.org](https://xmpp.org/)'s new [software section](https://xmpp.org/software/), which lets you filter software by your own criteria. Looking for a client which works on Android and supports audio/video calls? Looking for a library that supports [XEP-0461: Message Replies](https://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0461.html)? Just apply the filter and see what you get!

{{< figure src="/images/newsletter/2023-03-05/xmpp-software-section.png" caption="xmpp.org's new software section" >}}

- If you are interested to become an [XSF member](https://xmpp.org/community/membership/) you can [apply during this quarter until May 21th, 2023, 00:00 UTC](https://wiki.xmpp.org/web/Membership_Applications_Q2_2023).

### XMPP and Google Summer of Code 2023

> The XSF has been [accepted again as hosting organisation at the GSoC 2023](https://xmpp.org/2023/02/xmpp-at-google-summer-of-code-2023/) !

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The XSF has been [accepted again as hosting organisation at the GSoC 2023](https://xmpp.org/2023/02/xmpp-at-google-summer-of-code-2023/)!
```

{{< figure src="/images/logos/gsoc-2023-logo.svg" caption="XSF and Google Summer of Code 2023" >}}

### XSF fiscal hosting projects

> The XSF offers [fiscal hosting](https://xmpp.org/community/fiscalhost/) for XMPP projects. Please apply via [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/xmpp). For more information, see the [announcement blog post](https://xmpp.org/2021/09/the-xsf-as-a-fiscal-host/). Current projects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The XSF offers [fiscal hosting](https://xmpp.org/community/fiscalhost/) for XMPP projects. We're open for applications via [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/xmpp). For more information, see the [announcement blog post](https://xmpp.org/2021/09/the-xsf-as-a-fiscal-host/). Current projects:
```

- [Bifrost bridge: Offline messages exchange between Matrix and XMPP](https://opencollective.com/bifrost-mam)
- [Mellium Co-op](https://opencollective.com/mellium)

## XMPP Events

- [XMPP Office Hours](https://wiki.xmpp.org/web/XMPP_Office_Hours): available on our [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCf3Kq2ElJDFQhYDdjn18RuA)
- [Berlin XMPP Meetup (remote)](https://mov.im/?node/pubsub.movim.eu/berlin-xmpp-meetup): monthly meeting of XMPP enthusiasts in Berlin, every 2nd Wednesday of the month

> - [FOSSY](https://fossy.us) will have an XMPP track at their conference this summer. Please [submit talk proposals](https://2023.fossy.us/call-for-proposals/) by May 14th.  Some financial support will be available from the track organizers for presenters who need it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [FOSSY](https://fossy.us) will have an XMPP track at their conference this summer. Please [submit talk proposals](https://2023.fossy.us/call-for-proposals/) by May 14th. The track organizers offer financial support for presenters, if needed.
```

- [XMPP Italian happy hour](https://tube.nicfab.eu/w/3KJMxZPYxRXQDAhXySZgLf): monthly Italian XMPP web meeting, starting May 16th and then every third Tuesday of the month at 7:00 PM. Online event, with web meeting mode and live streaming.

## XMPP Sprints

> - [Elbe-Sprint Hamburg 2023](https://xmpp.org/2023/04/elbe-sprint-hamburg-2023/): Thursday, 22-06-2023 18:00 CEST — Sunday, 25-06-2023 12:00 CEST

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Elbe-Sprint Hamburg 2023](https://xmpp.org/2023/04/elbe-sprint-hamburg-2023/): Thursday, 22-06-2023 18:00 CEST — Sunday, 25-06-2023 12:00 CEST. This summer, XMPP developers are holding a development sprint in Hamburg, Germany.
```

## XMPP Videos

- Axel Reimer published German video tutorials in his blog [eversten.net](https://eversten.net/).
    - One [video [DE]](https://www.eversten.net/xmppvideo/) explains some main aspects of XMPP.
    - A series of [four videos [DE]](https://www.eversten.net/blog/monalvideos/) explains how iOS users can start using XMPP by installing and configuring the messenger app Monal.

## Articles

- A draft of the EU chat-control [has been published for download at Netzpolitik.org.](https://cdn.netzpolitik.org/wp-upload/2023/04/2023-04-05_EPRS_CSAM_Complementary-Impact-Assessment_DRAFT.pdf). Those are comment by 
  - [Netzpolitik.org](https://netzpolitik.org/2023/chatkontrolle-studie-zerlegt-plaene-der-eu-kommission/)[DE]
  - [Patrick Beyer (politician)](https://www.patrick-breyer.de/wissenschaftlicher-dienst-des-eu-parlaments-bestaetigt-chatkontrolle-verstoesst-gegen-grundrechte/) [DE]

> - Axel Reimer introduced a new German website called [xmpp24.de [DE]](https://xmpp24.de/). This website focuses on helping new XMPP users who want to start using XMPP on their Android or iOS devices. It explains exactly one onboarding flow (as a video tutorial) for each operating system. See aboves section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Axel Reimer introduced a new German website called [xmpp24.de [DE]](https://xmpp24.de/). This website focuses on helping new XMPP users who want to start using XMPP on their Android or iOS devices. It explains one onboarding flow (as a video tutorial) per operating system.
```

- The [JMP April Newsletter](http://blog.jmp.chat/b/april-newsletter-2023) talks about several developments, including a new MMS stack in testing, integration with the [Quicksy](https://quicksy.im) directory, the ability to create [Snikket](https://snikket.org) instances from inside a Cheogram Android onboarding flow, and an experimental [WebXDC](https://webxdc.org) prototype.

## Software news
### Clients and applications

> - [Gajim 1.7.3](https://gajim.org/post/2023-04-04-gajim-1.7.3-released/) has been released.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Gajim 1.7.3](https://gajim.org/post/2023-04-04-gajim-1.7.3-released/) has been released. This release enables you to mute notifications for specific contacts and brings some improvements and bug fixes.
```

### Servers

- [ejabberd 23.04](https://www.process-one.net/blog/ejabberd-23-04/) has been released. This a big new release with many changes including support XEP-0425 (Message moderation), Real-Time Block List for MUC rooms and several SQL improvements.

### Libraries & Tools

- [QXmpp 1.5.4](https://github.com/qxmpp-project/qxmpp/releases/tag/v1.5.4) and [QXmpp 1.5.5](https://github.com/qxmpp-project/qxmpp/releases/tag/v1.5.5) have been released! They fix some important bugs.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [Web Consosole Chat](https://soft.trung.fun/webcc/webcc.en.html) has been released. This is an installation guide and a collection of patches to make sure existing XMPP console clients are safe enough to before serving them to the web with [`ttyd`](https://github.com/tsl0922/ttyd) for your web-chat service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Web Console Chat](https://soft.trung.fun/webcc/webcc.en.html) has been released. This is an installation guide and a collection of patches to make sure existing XMPP console clients are safe enough before serving them to the web with [`ttyd`](https://github.com/tsl0922/ttyd) for your web-chat service.
```
